---
sidebar_label: "9.2 Signing with FROST"
sidebar_position: 11
image: /cover-image.png
description: The Most Powerful Multi-Chain NFT Bridge
---

# Signing with FROST

Bridge validators listen to the smart contracts on the integrated chains using the observer pattern. Once a relevant event is caught, each validator unpacks (deserializes) it and forms a target chain transaction.

From the FROST algorithm's point of view, this transaction is the **message** each validator has to sign. Since we're dealing with a threshold signature, each validator can only generate a partial signature.

## Precomputation

In each round, another **round leader** or **Signature Aggregator** is elected. This leader collects all the partial signatures from the other participants. For the speed and efficiency of the signing process, the validators precompute commitments and share them with the selected aggregator. 

Each participant runs their part of the code like this:
```ts
use rand::rngs::OsRng;
use frost_dalek::generate_commitment_share_lists;

let (
    p_5_public_comshares, 
    mut p_5_secret_comshares
    ) = generate_commitment_share_lists(&mut OsRng, 5, 1);
```

Each validator must have the same context as the other FROST participants:

```ts
let context = b"Some text unique to each project";
```

Hashing a test message:

```ts
use frost_dalek::compute_message_hash;

let message = b"Assuming each validator received the same event they will end up with the same message";
let message_hash = compute_message_hash(&context[..], &message[..]);
```

## Signature aggregation (step 1)

Let's assume our participant #5 was elected the leader in this round. Then, it will run the following code:

```ts
use frost_dalek::SignatureAggregator;

let mut aggregator = SignatureAggregator::new(
    params, 
    p_5_group_key.clone(), 
    &context[..], 
    &message[..]
);

aggregator.include_signer(
    1, 
    p_1_public_comshares.commitments[0], 
    p_1_public_key
);
//...
// Skipping self
//...
aggregator.include_signer(
    10,
     p_10_public_comshares.commitments[0], 
     p_10_public_key
);
```

Then the leader informs the other participants who are expected to sign:

```ts
let signers = aggregator.get_signers();
```

## Partial signatures (step 2)

Once the roles are defined, each validator, except for the aggregator, signs the message:

```ts
let p_1_partial = p_1_secret_key.sign(
    &message_hash, 
    &p_1_group_key,
    &mut p_1_secret_comshares, 0, 
    signers
);
```

Then `p_1_partial` ... skipping `p_5_partial` ... `p_10_partial` are sent to the aggregator.

## Signature aggregation

Aggregator aggregates the signatures:

```ts
aggregator.include_partial_signature(p_1_partial);
//...
// Skipping self
//...
aggregator.include_partial_signature(p_10_partial);
```

Then the leader tries to finalize the signatures:

```ts
let aggregator = aggregator.finalize();
```

This operation may end up with 2 types of failures of type `HashMap<u32, &'static str>,` where `u32` is the index of the participant and `&'static str` is the error description.

1. Aggregator error:<br/>
   a. not enough collected signatures<br/>
   b. accepted two partial signatures from one of the participants
2. Validator error: for example, invalid partial signature.

## Signature verification

The leader should check the signature validity before submitting it to the target chain to avoid unnecessary gas consumption and reverted transactions. Should the signature be found invalid, the leader must inform the participants to resubmit their partial signatures, reaggregate the group signature, and verify its validity.

```rust
let threshold_signature = aggregator.aggregate();

let verified = threshold_signature.verify(&p_5_group_key, &message_hash);
```